frontend-book/docs/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction to ROS 2 for Humanoid Robotics

Welcome to **The Robotic Nervous System (ROS 2)**, a comprehensive guide designed for AI students and developers entering humanoid robotics.

## Getting Started

This educational module will guide you through **ROS 2 fundamentals for humanoid robotics** in a structured learning path:

- **ROS 2 Basics**: Understanding the middleware nervous system for humanoid robots and DDS concepts
- **Communication Model**: Learning nodes, topics, services, and practical rclpy examples
- **Robot Structure**: Understanding URDF for humanoid robots and simulation readiness

### What you'll learn

- Core concepts of ROS 2 and why it matters for humanoid robotics
- How to implement communication patterns with nodes, topics, and services
- How to define robot structure using URDF for humanoid robots
- Practical examples using rclpy for agent and controller implementations

## About ROS 2 for Humanoid Robotics

ROS 2 (Robot Operating System 2) serves as the middleware nervous system that connects various components of humanoid robotic systems. Unlike traditional approaches, ROS 2 provides a flexible, distributed framework that enables:

- **Decentralized communication** through a publish-subscribe model
- **Language independence** supporting Python, C++, and other languages
- **Real-time capabilities** essential for humanoid robot control
- **Scalability** from single robots to multi-robot systems

## How to Use This Guide

This guide is structured to build your knowledge incrementally. Start with the ROS 2 basics and progress through communication models to robot structure. Each section includes practical examples and hands-on exercises to reinforce your learning.

**Ready to dive into the world of ROS 2 for humanoid robotics?** Begin with the ROS 2 basics section to understand the foundational concepts.

Commit message:

Add VLA integration specs and tasks

frontend-book/docs/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction to Humanoid Robotics: The Complete Guide

Welcome to **Humanoid Robotics: The Complete Guide**, a comprehensive resource designed for AI students and developers entering humanoid robotics. This textbook covers both the software nervous system (ROS 2) and advanced digital twin integration techniques.

## Getting Started

This educational guide is organized into two comprehensive modules:

### Module 1: The Robotic Nervous System (ROS 2)
- **ROS 2 Basics**: Understanding the middleware nervous system for humanoid robots and DDS concepts
- **Communication Model**: Learning nodes, topics, services, and practical rclpy examples
- **Robot Structure**: Understanding URDF for humanoid robots and simulation readiness

### Module 2: Advanced Digital Twin Integration (Gazebo & Unity)
- **Advanced Physics Simulation**: Sophisticated physics simulation techniques integrating Gazebo with Unity
- **Multi-Platform Synchronization**: Real-time synchronization between Gazebo physics and Unity visualization
- **Advanced Sensor Fusion**: Multi-sensor integration techniques for realistic digital twin capabilities

### What you'll learn

- Core concepts of ROS 2 and why it matters for humanoid robotics
- How to implement communication patterns with nodes, topics, and services
- How to define robot structure using URDF for humanoid robots
- Advanced physics simulation techniques with Gazebo
- Real-time synchronization between multiple platforms
- Multi-sensor fusion for digital twin environments
- Practical examples using rclpy for agent and controller implementations

## About Humanoid Robotics Development

Modern humanoid robotics development requires expertise in both software architecture (ROS 2) and simulation environments (Digital Twins). This guide covers:

- **Decentralized communication** through ROS 2's publish-subscribe model
- **Language independence** supporting Python, C++, and other languages
- **Real-time capabilities** essential for humanoid robot control
- **Digital twin integration** with physics simulation and visualization
- **Multi-sensor fusion** for realistic robot perception
- **Scalability** from single robots to multi-robot systems

## How to Use This Guide

This guide is structured to build your knowledge incrementally. You can start with either module based on your needs:
- Begin with **ROS 2 basics** if you're focusing on software architecture
- Start with **Advanced Digital Twin** if you're working on simulation environments

Each section includes practical examples and hands-on exercises to reinforce your learning.

**Ready to dive into the world of humanoid robotics?** Begin with the ROS 2 basics or Advanced Digital Twin section based on your focus area.
